Add auto reconnect section to SignalR JS client docs (#11951)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/signalr/javascript-client.md

## Reconnect clients

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

### Automatically reconnect

> The JavaScript client for SignalR doesn't automatically reconnect by default. Automatic reconnects can be enabled by calling the [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) method on [HubConnectionBuilder](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder):

Reviewer: Feels like you could use language like this here instead since this is a "3.0 forward" thing:

"The JavaScript client for SignalR can be enabled to automatically reconnect using the `withAutomaticReconnect`..."

> The JavaScript client for SignalR doesn't automatically reconnect by default. Automatic reconnects can be enabled by calling the [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) method on [HubConnectionBuilder](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder):

Reviewer 2: Stick with "doesn't". Contractions are always preferred in the docs.

> The JavaScript client for SignalR can be configured to automatically reconnect using the [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) method on [HubConnectionBuilder](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder). It will not automatically reconnect by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JavaScript client for SignalR can be configured to automatically reconnect using the [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) method on [HubConnectionBuilder](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder). It won't automatically reconnect by default.
```

```javascript
const connection = new signalR.HubConnectionBuilder()
    .withUrl("/chatHub")
    .withAutomaticReconnect()
    .build();
```

> Without any parameters, `withAutomaticReconnect()` configures to client to wait 0, 2, 10 and 30 seconds respectively before trying up to 4 reconnect attempts.

Reviewer: "configures the client" (you repeated 'to' it seems)

> Without any parameters, `withAutomaticReconnect()` configures to client to wait 0, 2, 10 and 30 seconds respectively before trying up to 4 reconnect attempts.

Author: I don't like the "between each reconnect attempt" phrasing because the first delay take place *before* the first reconnect attempt. That's why I was careful to the delay is before, not between, each reconnect attempt.

> Without any parameters, `withAutomaticReconnect()` configures the client to wait 0, 2, 10 and 30 seconds respectively before trying up to 4 reconnect attempts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without any parameters, `withAutomaticReconnect()` configures the client to wait 0, 2, 10, and 30 seconds respectively before trying up to four reconnect attempts.
```

> Before starting any reconnect attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition to the [Reconnecting](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onreconnecting](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnecting) callbacks instead of transitioning to the [Disconnected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#disconnected) state and triggering its [onclosed](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onclosed) callbacks like a `HubConnection` without automatic reconnect configured. This is a good opportunity to to warn users that the connection has been lost and disable UI elements.

Reviewer: > This is a good opportunity to to warn users that the connection has been lost and disable UI elements.

👍

> Before starting any reconnect attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition to the [Reconnecting](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onreconnecting](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnecting) callbacks instead of transitioning to the [Disconnected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#disconnected) state and triggering its [onclosed](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onclosed) callbacks like a `HubConnection` without automatic reconnect configured. This provides an opportunity to to warn users that the connection has been lost and disable UI elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before starting any reconnect attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition to the [Reconnecting](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onreconnecting](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnecting) callbacks instead of transitioning to the [Disconnected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#disconnected) state and triggering its [onclosed](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onclosed) callbacks like a `HubConnection` without automatic reconnect configured. This provides an opportunity to warn users that the connection has been lost and to disable UI elements.
```

```javascript
connection.onreconnecting((error) => {
  console.assert(connection.state === signalR.HubConnectionState.Reconnecting);

  document.getElementById("messageInput").disabled = true;

  const li = document.createElement("li");
  li.textContent = `Connection lost due to error "${error}". Reconnecting.`;
  document.getElementById("messagesList").appendChild(li);
});
```

> If the client successfully reconnect within its first four attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition back to the [Connected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onreconnected](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnected) callbacks. This provides an opportunity to inform users the connection has been reestablished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the client successfully reconnects within its first four attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition back to the [Connected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onreconnected](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnected) callbacks. This provides an opportunity to inform users the connection has been reestablished.
```

> Since the connection looks entirely new to the server, a new connectionId will be provided to the onreconnected callback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the connection looks entirely new to the server, a new `connectionId` will be provided to the `onreconnected` callback.
```

> [!WARNING]

> > The onreconnected callbacks connectionId parameter will not be undefined if the `HubConnection` was configured to [skip negotiation.](xref:signalr/configuration#configure-client-options)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The `onreconnected` callback's `connectionId` parameter won't be undefined if the `HubConnection` was configured to [skip negotiation](xref:signalr/configuration#configure-client-options).
```

> > The `onreconnected` callback's `connectionId` parameter won't be undefined if the `HubConnection` was configured to [skip negotiation](xref:signalr/configuration#configure-client-options).

Reviewer 3: "won't be undefined" you mean "will be"?

Author: ```suggestion
> The `onreconnected` callback's `connectionId` parameter will be undefined if the `HubConnection` was configured to [skip negotiation](xref:signalr/configuration#configure-client-options).
```

```javascript
connection.onreconnected((connectionId) => {

>   console.assert(connection.sate === signalR.HubConnectionState.Connected);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  console.assert(connection.state === signalR.HubConnectionState.Connected);
```

  document.getElementById("messageInput").disabled = false;

  const li = document.createElement("li");
  li.textContent = `Connection reestablished. Connected with connectionId "${connectionId}".`;
  document.getElementById("messagesList").appendChild(li);
});
```

> `withAutomaticReconnect()` will not configure the HubConnection to retry initial start failures, so start failures need to be handled manually:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`withAutomaticReconnect()` won't configure the `HubConnection` to retry initial start failures, so start failures need to be handled manually:
```

```javascript
async function start() {
    try {
        await connection.start();

>         console.assert(connection.sate === signalR.HubConnectionState.Connected);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        console.assert(connection.state === signalR.HubConnectionState.Connected);
```

        console.log("connected");
    } catch (err) {

>         console.assert(connection.sate === signalR.HubConnectionState.Disconnected);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        console.assert(connection.state === signalR.HubConnectionState.Disconnected);
```

        console.log(err);
        setTimeout(() => start(), 5000);
    }
};
```

> If the client doesn't succesfully reconnect within its first four attempts, the `HubConnection` will transition to the [Disconnected](javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionstate#reconnecting) state and fire its [onclosed](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnection#onreconnected) callbacks. This is a good opportunity to inform users the connection has been permanently lost and recommend refreshing the page:

Reviewer: > This is a good opportunity to inform users the connection has been permanently lost and recommend refreshing the page

Epic. Love how you provide the first example as a place to disable UI and this as a place to pull the rip cord. Great guidance in the docs, @halter73. Much happy.

```javascript
connection.onclose((error) => {

>   console.assert(connection.sate === signalR.HubConnectionState.Disconnected);

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  console.assert(connection.state === signalR.HubConnectionState.Disconnected);
```

  document.getElementById("messageInput").disabled = true;

  const li = document.createElement("li");
  li.textContent = `Connection closed due to error "${error}". Try refreshing this page to restart the connection.`;
  document.getElementById("messagesList").appendChild(li);
})
```

> In order to configure a non-defualt number of reconnect attempts before failure, or to change the reconnect timing, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an array of numbers representing the delay in milliseconds to wait before starting each reconnect attempt.

Reviewer: "default"

> In order to configure a non-defualt number of reconnect attempts before failure, or to change the reconnect timing, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an array of numbers representing the delay in milliseconds to wait before starting each reconnect attempt.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to configure a non-default number of reconnect attempts before failure, or to change the reconnect timing, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an array of numbers representing the delay in milliseconds to wait before starting each reconnect attempt.
```

Reviewer 4: I would even maybe change this from non-default to custom

Reviewer 4: Another thing, I might change before failure to before disconnecting or entering the disconnected state because failure can either refer to failing one of many reconnect attempts or failing the entire reconnect process and disconencting.

```javascript
const connection = new signalR.HubConnectionBuilder()
    .withUrl("/chatHub")
    .withAutomaticReconnect([0, 0, 10000])
    .build();

    // .withAutomaticReconnect([0, 2000, 10000, 30000]) yields the default behavior
```

> The above example configures the `HubConnection` to start attempting reconnects immediately after the connection is lost. This is also true for the default configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding example configures the `HubConnection` to start attempting reconnects immediately after the connection is lost. This is also true for the default configuration.
```

> If the first reconnect attempt fails, the second reconnect attempt will also start immediately instead of waiting 2 seconds like it would in the default configuration.

Reviewer 4: Were the new lines intentional here?

Author: Yeah. I tried to put the description of each custom reconnect attempt as compared to the default configuration in its own paragraph/text block.

If the second reconnect attempt fails, the third reconnect attempt will start in 10 seconds which is again like the default configuration.

The custom behavior then diverges again from the default behavior by stopping after the third reconnect attempt failure instead of trying one more reconnect attempt in another 30 seconds like it would in the default configuration.

> If you want even more control over the timing and number of automatic reconnect attempts, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an object implementing the [IReconnectPolicy](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy) interface which has a single method [nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy#nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds).

Reviewer: 💯

> If you want even more control over the timing and number of automatic reconnect attempts, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an object implementing the [IReconnectPolicy](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy) interface which has a single method [nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy#nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want more control over the timing and number of automatic reconnect attempts, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an object implementing the [IReconnectPolicy](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy) interface, which has a single method named [nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy#nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds).
```

> If you want even more control over the timing and number of automatic reconnect attempts, [withAutomaticReconnect](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/hubconnectionbuilder#withautomaticreconnect) accepts an object implementing the [IReconnectPolicy](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy) interface, which has a single method named [nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds](/javascript/api/%40aspnet/signalr/ireconnectpolicy#nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds).

Author: @scottaddie Not all of these API doc pages exist yet. Considering that, is it still OK to squash and merge this PR? Or should I remove the dead links for now?

Reviewer 2: @halter73 Thank you for pointing that out. I overlooked it. Please remove the dead links for now.

Author: @scottaddie I think bb4b4a4a226daf0f54701537353b6579d97983f1 removes all the dead links. Can you double check that everything is good to go now? Thanks.

```javascript
const connection = new signalR.HubConnectionBuilder()
    .withUrl("/chatHub")
    .withAutomaticReconnect({
        nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds: (previousRetryCount, elapsedMilliseconds) => {
          if (elapsedMilliseconds < 60000) {
            // If we've been reconnecting for less than 60 seconds so far,
            // wait between 0 and 10 seconds before the next reconnect attempt.
            return Math.random() * 10000;
          } else {
            // If we've been reconnecting for more than 60 seconds so far, stop reconnecting.
            return null;
          }
        })
    .build();
```

> `nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds` takes two arguments, `previousRetryCount` and `elapsedMilliseconds`, which are both numbers. Before the first reconnect attempt, both `previousRetryCount` and `elapsedMilliseconds` will be zero. After each failed retry attempt, `previousRetryCount` will be incremented by one and `elapsedMilliseconds` will be updated to reflect the amount of time spent reconnecting so far in milliseconds.

Reviewer 4: I might move "`nextRetryDelayInMilliseconds` takes two arguments, `previousRetryCount` and `elapsedMilliseconds`" to before the code snippet but meh

    .build();
```

> Alternatively, you can write code that will reconnect your client manually as demonstrated in the section below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can write code that will reconnect your client manually as demonstrated in [Manually reconnect](#manually-reconnect).
```

::: moniker-end

### Manually reconnect

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-3.0"

> [!WARNING]

> > Prior to 3.0, client for SignalR doesn't automatically reconnect. You must write code that will reconnect your client manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Prior to 3.0, the JavaScript client for SignalR doesn't automatically reconnect. You must write code that will reconnect your client manually.
```
